doc: NCS 3.4.0 Release Notes (#29095)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/releases_and_maturity/releases/release-notes-3.4.0.rst

Developing with nRF91 Series
============================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with nRF70 Series
============================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with nRF54L Series
=============================

* Updated builds without Partition Manager to generate the :file:`bootconf.hex` file when |NSIB| is used as the bootloader.

Developing with nRF54H Series
=============================

* Updated MCUboot to support MRAM write protection for up to four images.

Developing with nRF53 Series
============================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with nRF52 Series
============================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with Thingy:91 X
===========================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with Thingy:91
=========================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with Thingy:53
=========================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with PMICs
=====================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with Front-End Modules
=================================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with custom boards
=============================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Security
========

> * Added:
> 
>   * Support for X25519 key pair storage in the :ref:`Key Management Unit (KMU) <ug_kmu_guides_supported_key_types>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added support for X25519 key pair storage in the :ref:`Key Management Unit (KMU) <ug_kmu_guides_supported_key_types>`.
```

* Fixed:

  * Issues with incorrect support status on the :ref:`ug_crypto_supported_features` page:

    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_ALG_GCM` Kconfig option is now correctly listed as unsupported for SoCs with Arm CryptoCell CC310.
    * The tables for supported AES key wrapping algorithms for nRF54L Series devices now list the nRF54LS05 device (not supported in the CRACEN driver; experimental in the nrf_oberon driver).
    * The post-quantum cryptography algorithms for nrf_oberon under Key types and key management are now correctly listed as experimental instead of supported.
    * The SPAKE2+ for Matter is now correctly listed as supported instead of experimental.
    * The WPA3-SAE hash-to-element algorithm is now correctly listed as a KDF algorithm, not a PAKE algorithm.
    * The SHA-256/192 and SHAKE hashing algorithms are now correctly listed as not supported in the CRACEN driver and experimental in the nrf_oberon driver.
      The only exception is the SHAKE256 512 bits algorithm, which is supported in both the CRACEN and nrf_oberon drivers.

* Removed:

>   * The ``CONFIG_NRF_SECURITY_ADVANCED`` Kconfig option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Removed the ``CONFIG_NRF_SECURITY_ADVANCED`` Kconfig option.
```

Security libraries
------------------

* :ref:`nrf_security_readme` library:

  * Updated:

    * The documentation to one library page with sections for PSA Crypto, TLS and X.509, dependencies, and API documentation.

>       The page includes information about how :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_CRYPTO` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MBEDTLS` are used after the Mbed TLS v4.1 update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Updated the documentation to one library page with sections for PSA Crypto, TLS and X.509, dependencies, and API documentation.
    The page includes information about how :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_CRYPTO` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MBEDTLS` are used after the Mbed TLS v4.1 update.
```

  * Removed:

    * The configuration page for the deprecated legacy crypto backend (:file:`libraries/security/nrf_security/doc/backend_config`).

>       Configure cryptographic features using :ref:`psa_crypto_support` and :ref:`ug_crypto_supported_features` instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Removed the configuration page for the deprecated legacy crypto backend (:file:`libraries/security/nrf_security/doc/backend_config`).
    Configure cryptographic features using :ref:`psa_crypto_support` and :ref:`ug_crypto_supported_features` instead.
```

    * :ref:`ble_llpm`
    * :ref:`bluetooth_radio_coex_1wire_sample`
    * :ref:`ble_radio_notification_conn_cb`
    * :ref:`bt_scanning_while_connecting`
    * :ref:`ble_subrating`

* :ref:`peripheral_hids_mouse` sample:

  * Added:

    * Support for continuous HID report sending (one report notification for each connection interval) as well as statistics for continuous report sending.
    * A configuration with support for the HID Shorter Connection Intervals (SCI).
      It is enabled with the ``hid_sci`` suffix.

* :ref:`bluetooth_central_hids` sample:

  * Added:

    * Continuous receive mode when a high report rate is detected, with periodic statistics for each batch of received reports for timing quality assessment (for use with continuous sending on a HID peripheral).
    * A configuration with support for the HID Shorter Connection Intervals (SCI) on the HID host side.
      It is enabled with the ``hid_sci`` suffix.
    * Support for connecting multiple HID peripherals.

  * Updated the sample to use deferred logging to reduce the overhead of logging.
    This can cause messages to be delayed up to around 100 ms.

* :ref:`direct_test_mode` sample:

  * Updated:

>     * Use of the :ref:`nrfxlib:softdevice_controller` to run DTM commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Updated the :ref:`nrfxlib:softdevice_controller` to run DTM commands.
```

  * Updated to use the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_coap` library instead of the removed nRF Cloud REST library.

* :ref:`modem_shell_application` sample:

  * Updated to use the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_coap` library instead of the removed nRF Cloud REST library.

Cryptography samples
--------------------

* Added support for the ``nrf54ls05dk/nrf54ls05a/cpuapp`` board target to all samples, except :ref:`crypto_aes_kw`, :ref:`crypto_kmu_cracen_usage`, and :ref:`crypto_persistent_key`.

Debug samples
-------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

DFU samples
-----------

* Updated:

  * The :ref:`mcuboot_minimal_configuration` has been moved to the :file:`samples/dfu` directory.

DECT NR+ samples
----------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Edge Impulse samples
--------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Enhanced ShockBurst samples
---------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Gazell samples
--------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

|ISE| samples
-------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Keys samples
------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Matter samples
--------------

* Updated:

  * The :ref:`matter_window_covering_sample` sample to use the Thread Sleepy End Device (SED) device type by default.

>     You can now enable the Thread Synchronized Sleepy End Device (SSED) device type as an optional feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Updated the :ref:`matter_window_covering_sample` sample to use the Thread Sleepy End Device (SED) device type by default.
  You can now enable the Thread Synchronized Sleepy End Device (SSED) device type as an optional feature.
```

    The add-on is an extensible solution offering additional features and expanded integration capabilities.
    It enables the development of not only Matter-compliant door locks, but also those supporting Aliro and hybrid Matter and Aliro combined functionalities, thereby facilitating the design of versatile smart lock solutions.
  * The AWS IoT integration variant from the :ref:`matter_light_bulb_sample` sample.

Networking samples
------------------

* Removed Partition Manager for all Wi-Fi targets from the following samples:

  * :ref:`mqtt_sample` sample
  * :ref:`udp_sample` sample
  * :ref:`net_coap_client_sample` sample
  * :ref:`download_sample` sample
  * :ref:`https_client` sample
  * :ref:`http_server` sample
  * :ref:`aws_iot` sample
  * :ref:`azure_iot_hub` sample

  Flash and SRAM partitions are supplied using devicetree overlays instead.

* :ref:`mqtt_sample` sample:

  * Added the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_ECC_SECP_R1_384` Kconfig option to the TLS overlay files, which is required by the CA certificate of ``mqtt.nordicsemi.academy``.

  * Updated:

>     * The default MQTT broker from ``test.mosquitto.org`` to ``mqtt.nordicsemi.academy`` because of recurring instability in the previous broker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Updated the default MQTT broker from ``test.mosquitto.org`` to ``mqtt.nordicsemi.academy`` because of recurring instability in the previous broker.
```

------------------

* :ref:`nrf_security_readme` library:

  * Updated:

    * The documentation to one library page with sections for PSA Crypto, TLS and X.509, dependencies, and API documentation.
      The page includes information about how :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_CRYPTO` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MBEDTLS` are used after the Mbed TLS v4.1 update.

  * Removed:

    * The configuration page for the deprecated legacy crypto backend (:file:`libraries/security/nrf_security/doc/backend_config`).
      Configure cryptographic features using :ref:`psa_crypto_support` and :ref:`ug_crypto_supported_features` instead.

Mbed TLS
--------

* Updated Mbed TLS to v4.1.0 (from v3.6.6).
  For an overview of the changes brought by this update in Mbed TLS and Zephyr, see the following pages:

  * The Mbed TLS sections of the Zephyr v4.4 :ref:`release notes <zephyr_4.4>` and :ref:`migration guide <migration_4.4>`.

  * The release notes from upstream Mbed TLS:

    * https://github.com/Mbed-TLS/mbedtls/releases/tag/mbedtls-4.0.0
    * https://github.com/Mbed-TLS/TF-PSA-Crypto/releases/tag/tf-psa-crypto-1.0.0
    * https://github.com/Mbed-TLS/mbedtls/releases/tag/mbedtls-4.1.0

>     * https://github.com/Mbed-TLS/TF-PSA-Crypto/releases/tag/tf-psa-crypto-1.1.0

Reviewer: Add to links.txt

  * Removed outdated Kconfig options related to Mbed TLS in various files under :ref:`nrf_security`.
  * :ref:`nrf_security` now uses the Mbed TLS integration from Zephyr as-is (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MBEDTLS_BUILTIN`) while replacing upstream TF-PSA-Crypto with Oberon PSA Crypto (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TF_PSA_CRYPTO_CUSTOM`).

  From this update onwards:

  * Enable :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MBEDTLS` only if you use TLS or X.509.
  * For cryptographic operations, enable only :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_CRYPTO`.

Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M)
-------------------------

* Updated to version 2.3.0.

Protocols
=========

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`protocol <protocols>`.
See `Samples`_ for lists of changes for the protocol-related samples.

Bluetooth® LE
-------------

* Added the following Kconfig options to enable support for certain HCI commands:

  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_DATA_RELATED_ADDRESS_CHANGES`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_RF_PATH_COMPENSATION`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_ISO_TEST`

Bluetooth Mesh
--------------

* Added the :ref:`dfu_conf` guide on how to configure DFU for Bluetooth Mesh samples.

> * Added recommendations for sizing the persistent storage partitions to handle continuous storage of the replay protection list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added:
 
  * The :ref:`dfu_conf` guide on how to configure DFU for Bluetooth Mesh samples.
  * Recommendations for sizing the persistent storage partitions to handle continuous storage of the replay protection list.
```

DECT NR+
--------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Enhanced ShockBurst (ESB)
-------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Gazell
------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Matter
------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Matter fork
+++++++++++

|no_changes_yet_note|

nRF IEEE 802.15.4 radio driver
------------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Thread
------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Wi-Fi®
------

> * Removed support for DES-encrypted private keys in Wi-Fi Enterprise (EAP-TLS) following the update to Mbed TLS 4.1.0/TF-PSA-Crypto 1.1.0 in |NCS|.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Removed support for DES-encrypted private keys in Wi-Fi Enterprise (EAP-TLS) following the update to Mbed TLS 4.1.0/TF-PSA-Crypto 1.1.0 in the |NCS|.
```

* Renamed the application to nRF Audio from nRF5340 Audio.
* Added:

  * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_AUDIO_BROADCAST_BASE_PRINT` Kconfig option to print the contents of the BASE when it is received.
    This option is intended for debugging purposes.
    It is only valid for the :ref:`broadcast sink application <nrf_audio_broadcast_sink_app>`.

  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LTO` to enable link-time optimization for the application.
    It improves application performance and reduces code size.

* Updated:

  * The call to :c:func:`hci_vs_sdc_iso_read_tx_timestamp` so that, when sending ISO data, it is performed at regular intervals instead of every SDU interval.
    This change reduces the frequency of application-controller time synchronization, while significantly reducing processing overhead.
  * The group creation in the :ref:`unicast client application <nrf_audio_unicast_client_app>` so that it waits until all connected devices have finished discovery.

nRF Desktop
-----------

* Updated application configurations to change the non-volatile memory self-protection mechanism in the MCUboot image on the nRF54L board targets (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOC_SERIES_NRF54L`).

>   The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_MCUBOOT_DISABLE_SELF_RWX` Kconfig option is used instead of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FPROTECT` to disable read, write and execute from the memory area that holds the MCUboot bootloader.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_MCUBOOT_DISABLE_SELF_RWX` Kconfig option is used instead of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FPROTECT` to disable read, write, and execute from the memory area that holds the MCUboot bootloader.
```

* :ref:`ble_mesh_dfu_target` sample:

  * The partition layout for the ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp``, ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp``, and ``nrf54lm20dk/nrf54lm20a/cpuapp`` board targets is not backward compatible with the previous versions of the sample.

Bluetooth Fast Pair samples
---------------------------

* Updated the DTS overlays of the Fast Pair samples to use the new ``zephyr,mapped-partition`` compatible property for each partition node.
  The change aligns the board target overlays with the layout produced by the Partition Manager-to-DTS helper script (:file:`scripts/pm_to_dts.py`).

* Removed the remaining ``nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp`` board target configurations from the following samples:

  * :ref:`fast_pair_locator_tag`
  * :ref:`fast_pair_input_device`

  Updated the sample documentation to remove all references to the ``nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp`` board target, including descriptions of nRF54H-specific solutions such as the legacy SUIT DFU integration.

>   Support for this target was already dropped during the IronSide SE migration in the |NCS| v3.1.0 release.

Reviewer: Move these lines under Updated

  * The :ref:`mcuboot_minimal_configuration` has been moved to the :file:`samples/dfu` directory.

DECT NR+ samples
----------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Edge Impulse samples
--------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Enhanced ShockBurst samples
---------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Gazell samples
--------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

|ISE| samples
-------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Keys samples
------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Matter samples
--------------

* Updated:

  * The :ref:`matter_window_covering_sample` sample to use the Thread Sleepy End Device (SED) device type by default.
    You can now enable the Thread Synchronized Sleepy End Device (SSED) device type as an optional feature.

* Removed:

  * Support for the nRF7002 DK and nRF5340 DK used with the nRF7002 EK shield from all Matter samples, as this configuration was deprecated in |NCS| v3.2.0.
    The removal is mainly due to the very limited non-volatile memory available for application code.
    As an alternative, use the nRF54LM20A or nRF54LM20B SoC with the nRF7002-EB II shield.
    This combination provides significantly more non-volatile memory for Matter over Wi-Fi applications.

>   * The implementation of the Matter Door lock sample has been relocated to the `nRF Door Lock and Access Control Add-on`_, that is |NCS| extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * The implementation of the Matter Door lock sample has been relocated to the `nRF Door Lock and Access Control Add-on`_.
```

    The add-on is an extensible solution offering additional features and expanded integration capabilities.
    It enables the development of not only Matter-compliant door locks, but also those supporting Aliro and hybrid Matter and Aliro combined functionalities, thereby facilitating the design of versatile smart lock solutions.
  * The AWS IoT integration variant from the :ref:`matter_light_bulb_sample` sample.

Networking samples
------------------

* Removed Partition Manager for all Wi-Fi targets from the following samples:

  * :ref:`mqtt_sample` sample
  * :ref:`udp_sample` sample
  * :ref:`net_coap_client_sample` sample
  * :ref:`download_sample` sample
  * :ref:`https_client` sample
  * :ref:`http_server` sample
  * :ref:`aws_iot` sample
  * :ref:`azure_iot_hub` sample

  Flash and SRAM partitions are supplied using devicetree overlays instead.

* :ref:`mqtt_sample` sample:

  * Added:

    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_ECC_SECP_R1_384` Kconfig option to the TLS overlay files, which is required by the CA certificate of ``mqtt.nordicsemi.academy``.

  * Updated:

>     * The default MQTT broker from ``test.mosquitto.org`` to ``mqtt.nordicsemi.academy`` because of recurring instability in the previous broker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Added the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_ECC_SECP_R1_384` Kconfig option to the TLS overlay files, which is required by the CA certificate of ``mqtt.nordicsemi.academy``.

  * Updated the default MQTT broker from ``test.mosquitto.org`` to ``mqtt.nordicsemi.academy`` because of recurring instability in the previous broker.
```

* :ref:`lib_nrf_provisioning` library:

  * Removed dependency on the :ref:`lte_lc_readme` library.
    The :ref:`at_monitor_readme` library is now used for tracking network connectivity status.

* :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library:

  * Added the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_SEND_DEVICE_INFO_BOOTLOADER_VERSION` Kconfig option to include the active MCUboot (B1) ``fw_info`` version as ``bootloaderVersion`` in ``deviceInfo``.

  * Updated:

    * By changing the default device ID source from :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_CLIENT_ID_SRC_IMEI` to the device UUID.
      On an nRF9160 device the default is now :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_CLIENT_ID_SRC_INTERNAL_UUID`, which reads the UUID from the JWT ``iss`` claim and preserves compatibility with field devices provisioned through older nrfcloud-utils flows.
      On the nRF91x1 and future SoCs, the default is :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_CLIENT_ID_SRC_MDM_DEVICE_UUID`, which reads the UUID using ``AT%DEVICEUUID`` without pulling in :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_JWT`.
      Each option is constrained to its target SoC at the Kconfig level.

>       See the :ref:`migration_3.4` for the impact on existing devices that relied on the previous IMEI default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Updated by changing the default device ID source from :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_CLIENT_ID_SRC_IMEI` to the device UUID.
    On an nRF9160 device the default is now :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_CLIENT_ID_SRC_INTERNAL_UUID`, which reads the UUID from the JWT ``iss`` claim and preserves compatibility with field devices provisioned through older nrfcloud-utils flows.
    On the nRF91x1 and future SoCs, the default is :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_CLIENT_ID_SRC_MDM_DEVICE_UUID`, which reads the UUID using ``AT%DEVICEUUID`` without pulling in :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_JWT`.
    Each option is constrained to its target SoC at the Kconfig level.
    See the :ref:`migration_3.4` for the impact on existing devices that relied on the previous IMEI default.
```

  * Deprecated:

    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_CLIENT_ID_SRC_IMEI` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_CLIENT_ID_SRC_HW_ID` Kconfig options.

>       Use the default UUID source for new applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Deprecated the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_CLIENT_ID_SRC_IMEI` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_CLIENT_ID_SRC_HW_ID` Kconfig options.
    Use the default UUID source for new applications.
```

  * Fixed the ``ms_per_timestamp_tick`` parameter (defined in the :file:`rtt_nordic_config.py`) to accurately align with the system clock's frequency of the nRF52, nRF53, and nRF91 Series SoCs.

Integrations
============

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`integration <integrations>`.

Google Fast Pair integration
----------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Edge Impulse integration
------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Memfault integration
--------------------

* Added:

  * Devicetree support for the internal flash coredump backend (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MEMFAULT_NCS_INTERNAL_FLASH_BACKED_COREDUMP`).
    The backend now locates its storage from a fixed partition labeled ``memfault_coredump_partition`` when Partition Manager is disabled, while continuing to support Partition Manager when enabled.
  * The :ref:`snippet-memfault-coredump` snippet that supplies a board-specific partition overlay for flash-backed coredump storage on common DKs and Thingy:91 or Thingy:91 X.

* Updated:

  * Memfault to version 1.40.0.

>     See the `Memfault firmware SDK changelog`_ for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Updated Memfault to version 1.40.0.
  See the `Memfault firmware SDK changelog`_ for details.
```

  * Renamed Kconfig options and headers:

    * ``SB_CONFIG_NRF_HALTIUM_GENERATE_UICR`` to :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_NRF_GENERATE_UICR`.
    * The ``HALTIUM_PLATFORM_PSA_KEY_ID()`` macro to ``NRF_PLATFORM_PSA_KEY_ID()`` (in :file:`include/psa/nrf_platform_key_ids.h`).
    * :file:`haltium_power.h` to :file:`soc_power.h`.
    * :file:`haltium_pm_s2ram.h` to :file:`soc_pm_s2ram.h`.

  * Deprecated Kconfig options and headers:

    * The ``CONFIG_NRF_PLATFORM_HALTIUM`` Kconfig option.
      Use :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOC_SERIES_NRF54H` or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOC_SERIES_NRF92` instead.
    * The ``CONFIG_NRF_PLATFORM_LUMOS`` Kconfig option.
      Use :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOC_SERIES_NRF54L` or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOC_SERIES_NRF71` instead.
    * The ``SB_CONFIG_NRF_HALTIUM_GENERATE_UICR`` Kconfig option (alias for :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_NRF_GENERATE_UICR`).
    * The ``HALTIUM_PLATFORM_PSA_KEY_ID()`` macro (alias for ``NRF_PLATFORM_PSA_KEY_ID()``).
    * The :file:`haltium_power.h` and :file:`haltium_pm_s2ram.h` headers, which forward to the new headers.

>   See :ref:`migration_3.4` for migration instructions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  See `Migration notes for nRF Connect SDK v3.4.0`_ for migration instructions.
```
To link to the latest.

Security libraries
------------------

* :ref:`nrf_security_readme` library:

  * Updated the documentation to one library page with sections for PSA Crypto, TLS and X.509, dependencies, and API documentation.
    The page includes information about how :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_CRYPTO` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MBEDTLS` are used after the Mbed TLS v4.1 update.

  * Removed the configuration page for the deprecated legacy crypto backend (:file:`libraries/security/nrf_security/doc/backend_config`).
    Configure cryptographic features using :ref:`psa_crypto_support` and :ref:`ug_crypto_supported_features` instead.

Mbed TLS
--------

* Updated Mbed TLS to v4.1.0 (from v3.6.6):

  * Removed support for legacy, deprecated Mbed TLS Crypto APIs and related tests.
  * Rearranged Kconfig options related to Mbed TLS in various files under :ref:`nrf_security`.
  * Removed outdated Kconfig options related to Mbed TLS in various files under :ref:`nrf_security`.
  * :ref:`nrf_security` now uses the Mbed TLS integration from Zephyr as-is (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MBEDTLS_BUILTIN`) while replacing upstream TF-PSA-Crypto with Oberon PSA Crypto (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TF_PSA_CRYPTO_CUSTOM`).

>   For more information, see the :ref:`migration_3.4`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  For more information, see the `Migration notes for nRF Connect SDK v3.4.0`_.
```

Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M)
-------------------------

> * Updated to version 2.3.0.

Reviewer 2: The cmake file should also be updated with this version - https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/blob/v3.4-branch/doc/CMakeLists.txt#L338. 

Also, need to confirm the Matter and MCUboot versions for the CMake file updates with Lukasz duda and Andrzej Puzdrowski.

Protocols
=========

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`protocol <protocols>`.
See `Samples`_ for lists of changes for the protocol-related samples.

Bluetooth® LE
-------------

* Added the following Kconfig options to enable support for certain HCI commands:

  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_DATA_RELATED_ADDRESS_CHANGES`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_RF_PATH_COMPENSATION`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_ISO_TEST`

Bluetooth Mesh
--------------

* Added:

  * The :ref:`dfu_conf` guide on how to configure DFU for Bluetooth Mesh samples.
  * Recommendations for sizing the persistent storage partitions to handle continuous storage of the replay protection list.

DECT NR+
--------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Enhanced ShockBurst (ESB)
-------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Gazell
------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Matter
------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Matter fork
+++++++++++

|no_changes_yet_note|

nRF IEEE 802.15.4 radio driver
------------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Thread
------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Wi-Fi®
------

* Added the ``nordic-wifi-enterprise`` snippet to be used for Wi-Fi enterprise.

>   For more information, see the :ref:`migration_3.4`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  For more information, see the `Migration notes for nRF Connect SDK v3.4.0`_.
```

------------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

SDFW samples
------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Sensor samples
--------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

SUIT samples
------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) samples
---------------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Thread samples
--------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Wi-Fi samples
-------------

* Added the :ref:`wifi_nrf_cloud` sample, refactored from the former Cellular: nRF Cloud multi-service sample.
  This sample targets the nRF7002 Wi-Fi companion IC, using Wi-Fi as the transport instead of LTE.

Other samples
-------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Drivers
=======

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`driver <drivers>`.

* Fixed an issue where the low power UART can fail after a reset if the reset occurs during transmission.

Wi-Fi drivers
-------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Flash drivers
-------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Libraries
=========

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`library <libraries>`.

Binary libraries
----------------

* :ref:`liblwm2m_carrier_readme` library:

  * Added support for building without Partition Manager.

>     This requires an ``lwm2m_carrier`` partition to be defined in devicetree.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This requires an ``lwm2m_carrier`` partition to be defined in the devicetree.
```

    * The internal CoAP client socket descriptor not being updated immediately after a new DTLS socket was connected, which could leave ``client->cc.fd`` stale during reconnect and interfere with CoAP polling, receive, and retransmit paths.

  * Removed:

    * The nRF Cloud Alerts library.
      As part of the migration to *nRF Cloud powered by Memfault*, the nRF Cloud Alerts feature is now redundant.
      `Memfault's Trace Events <Memfault: Error Tracking with Trace Events_>`_ feature replaces the Alerts feature, as it provides equivalent functionality for event reporting, and it also adds enhanced debugging capabilities that were not available with Alerts.
    * The nRF Cloud REST library.
    * The nRF Cloud logging library.

* :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_pgps` library:

  * Updated:

    * The range for the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PGPS_NUM_PREDICTIONS` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PGPS_REPLACEMENT_THRESHOLD` Kconfig options to values supported by nRF Cloud.
    * The CoAP endpoint used for requesting predictions has been renamed from ``loc/pgps`` to ``loc/pgnss``.
      The CBOR wire format is unchanged.

  * Fixed:

>     * An issue that caused predictions to be stored into incorrect index in flash, leading to an error when the affected predictions were used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * An issue that caused predictions to be stored into an incorrect index in flash, leading to an error when the affected predictions were used.
```

Edge Impulse integration
------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Memfault integration
--------------------

* Added:

  * Devicetree support for the internal flash coredump backend (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MEMFAULT_NCS_INTERNAL_FLASH_BACKED_COREDUMP`).
    The backend now locates its storage from a fixed partition labeled ``memfault_coredump_partition`` when Partition Manager is disabled, while continuing to support Partition Manager when enabled.
  * The :ref:`snippet-memfault-coredump` snippet that supplies a board-specific partition overlay for flash-backed coredump storage on common DKs and Thingy:91 or Thingy:91 X.

* Updated Memfault to version 1.40.0.
  See the `Memfault firmware SDK changelog`_ for details.

AVSystem integration
--------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

nRF Cloud integration
---------------------

* Added a ``memfaultEn`` control key in the Device Shadow, enabling dynamic enable/disable of Memfault chunk uploads at runtime.
  This is done through Device Shadow updates.
  A new control variable is used.

CoreMark integration
--------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

DULT integration
----------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

MCUboot
=======

> The MCUboot fork in the |NCS| (``sdk-mcuboot``) contains all commits from the upstream MCUboot repository up to and including ``8d14eebfe0b7402ebdf77ce1b99ba1a3793670e9``, with some |NCS| specific additions.

Author: @nvlsianpu Hi, could you verify if this is the right hash?

The code for integrating MCUboot into |NCS| is located in the :file:`ncs/nrf/modules/mcuboot` folder.

The following list summarizes both the main changes inherited from upstream MCUboot and the main changes applied to the |NCS| specific additions:

* Fixed a possible infinite loop in the bootloader information sharing procedure when the Kconfig options :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOOT_SHARE_DATA_BOOTINFO` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MCUBOOT_HW_DOWNGRADE_PREVENTION` are enabled.
  Iterating boot-info security counters could spin forever if the :c:func:`boot_nv_security_counter_get` function failed for an image index (for example, backends that expose only one NV counter when :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOOT_IMAGE_NUMBER` is greater than one).

Zephyr
======

.. NOTE TO MAINTAINERS: All the Zephyr commits in the below git commands must be handled specially after each upmerge and each nRF Connect SDK release.

> The Zephyr fork in the |NCS| (``sdk-zephyr``) contains all commits from the upstream Zephyr repository up to and including ``684c9e8f32e4373a21098559f748f06915f950c9``, with some |NCS| specific additions.

Author: @nvlsianpu Hi, could you verify if this is the right hash?

The current |NCS| main branch is based on revision ``684c9e8f32`` of Zephyr.

.. note::
   For possible breaking changes and changes between the latest Zephyr release and the current Zephyr version, refer to the :ref:`Zephyr release notes <zephyr_release_notes>`.

Additions specific to |NCS|
---------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

zcbor
=====

|no_changes_yet_note|

Documentation
=============

* Added:

  * Description of the MRAM auto-powerdown tradeoff in the :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_pm_optimization` documentation page.
  * MSD disable step in the :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_gs` guide.
  * MRAM11 IronSide SE update limitations in the :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_ironside_update` and :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_ironside_services` documentation pages.
  * The :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_ironside_se_snapshot` documentation page for using IronSide SE snapshot features.

Updated:

  * The :ref:`ug_nrf54h20_architecture_lifecycle` documentation page, expanding the description of the LCS states.
  * The :ref:`app_boards` documentation page by moving the pages with board definitions under the :ref:`nrf_boards` section.
    This update removes the Supported boards section from the top level of the |NCS| documentation.

>   * The :ref:`abi_compatibility` documentation page

Reviewer 2: Should we add more info or just remove this sentence as this page is updated for every release with the IronSide details. 
```suggestion
  * The :ref:`abi_compatibility` documentation page.
```

    * The ``HALTIUM_PLATFORM_PSA_KEY_ID()`` macro (alias for ``NRF_PLATFORM_PSA_KEY_ID()``).
    * The :file:`haltium_power.h` and :file:`haltium_pm_s2ram.h` headers, which forward to the new headers.

  See :ref:`migration_3.4` for migration instructions.

  The deprecated symbols, headers, and macros remain available with a deprecation warning and are scheduled for removal in a future release.

* Consolidated the previously per-SoC :file:`soc_power.c` and :file:`soc_pm_s2ram.c` sources for the nRF54H and nRF92 Series in a single shared location under :file:`zephyr/soc/nordic/common/`.

Bootloaders and DFU
===================

* Added support for the new LCS API to control bootloader behavior.
  When this API is enabled, the bootloader can skip signature verification in early LCS states and abort the boot process in the decommissioned state.

* Fixed DTS support for nRF5340 network core images when :ref:`b0n <bootloader>` was enabled.

Developing with nRF91 Series
============================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with nRF70 Series
============================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with nRF54L Series
=============================

> * Updated builds without Partition Manager to generate the :file:`bootconf.hex` file when |NSIB| is used as the bootloader.

Reviewer 3: Please add for #29565 :
```
* Added the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SB_CRACEN_KMU_INVALIDATE_PROTECTED_RAM_SLOTS` sysbuild Kconfig option.
  This option populates the Key Management Unit (KMU) slots for invalidation of the CRACEN-protected RAM using nRF Util.
  This option requires the ``device`` command v2.15.4 or later to work.
  See `Installing and upgrading nRF Util commands`_ for more information.
  When enabled, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CRACEN_PROVISION_PROT_RAM_INV_SLOTS_ON_INIT` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CRACEN_PROVISION_PROT_RAM_INV_SLOTS_WITH_IMPORT` Kconfig options become unavailable, as they implement the same feature through alternative provisioning paths.
```

Reviewer 4: @degjorva - edited your comment with the latest version of the entry.

Developing with Thingy:91
=========================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with Thingy:53
=========================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with PMICs
=====================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with Front-End Modules
=================================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with custom boards
=============================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Security
========

* Added:

  * Support for X25519 key pair storage in the :ref:`Key Management Unit (KMU) <ug_kmu_guides_supported_key_types>`.

* Renamed IronSide Secure Element to IronSide Secure Enclave.

* Updated:

  * |ISE| to version 23.7.0+30.
    For more information, see :ref:`abi_compatibility_ise_changelog`.
  * Oberon PSA Crypto from v1.5.4 to v2.0.0.
    The new version aligns with TF-PSA-Crypto v1.1.0.
  * How the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_SECURITY` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_CRYPTO` Kconfig options interact with each other.
    :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_SECURITY` is now promptless and auto-enabled indirectly by :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_CRYPTO`.
  * Approach to store keys in the KMU so that AEAD algorithms with non-default (shortened) tag lengths are supported.

> 

Reviewer 4: Please add for #29331 
```suggestion
  * The :ref:`ug_crypto_supported_features` page:
   
    * The page now lists both nRF54LS05A and nRF54LS05B in the support tables.
    * The CRACEN support status for nRF54LV10A for most of the algorithms changed from Experimental to Supported.
    * The :ref:`ug_crypto_supported_features_countermeasures` section now includes information for nRF54H20.
```

* Removed:

  * The ``CONFIG_NRF_SECURITY_ADVANCED`` Kconfig option.

Security libraries
------------------

* :ref:`nrf_security_readme` library:

  * Updated:

    * The documentation to one library page with sections for PSA Crypto, TLS and X.509, dependencies, and API documentation.
      The page includes information about how :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_CRYPTO` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MBEDTLS` are used after the Mbed TLS v4.1 update.

  * Removed:

    * The configuration page for the deprecated legacy crypto backend (:file:`libraries/security/nrf_security/doc/backend_config`).
      Configure cryptographic features using :ref:`psa_crypto_support` and :ref:`ug_crypto_supported_features` instead.

Mbed TLS
--------

* Updated Mbed TLS to v4.1.0 (from v3.6.6).
  For an overview of the changes brought by this update in Mbed TLS and Zephyr, see the following pages:

  * The Mbed TLS sections of the Zephyr v4.4 :ref:`release notes <zephyr_4.4>` and :ref:`migration guide <migration_4.4>`.

  * The release notes from upstream Mbed TLS:

    * `Mbed TLS 4.0.0 release notes`_
    * `TF-PSA-Crypto 1.0.0 release notes`_
    * `Mbed TLS 4.1.0 release notes`_

>     * `TF-PSA-Crypto 1.1.0 release notes`_

Reviewer 4: Remove --> moved to migration guide.

  As part of this update, the following changes were made:

  * Removed support for legacy, deprecated Mbed TLS Crypto APIs and related tests.
  * Rearranged Kconfig options related to Mbed TLS in various files under :ref:`nrf_security`.
  * Removed outdated Kconfig options related to Mbed TLS in various files under :ref:`nrf_security`.

>   * :ref:`nrf_security` now uses the Mbed TLS integration from Zephyr as-is (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MBEDTLS_BUILTIN`) while replacing upstream TF-PSA-Crypto with Oberon PSA Crypto (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TF_PSA_CRYPTO_CUSTOM`).

Reviewer 4: Keep

  From this update onwards:

  * Enable :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MBEDTLS` only if you use TLS or X.509.

>   * For cryptographic operations, enable only :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_CRYPTO`.

Reviewer 4: Remove and replace with:
```
For more information, see <link_to_migration_guide_section>.
```

Bluetooth Mesh
--------------

* Added:

  * The :ref:`dfu_conf` guide on how to configure DFU for Bluetooth Mesh samples.
  * Recommendations for sizing the persistent storage partitions to handle continuous storage of the replay protection list.

DECT NR+
--------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Enhanced ShockBurst (ESB)
-------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Gazell
------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Matter
------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Matter fork
+++++++++++

|no_changes_yet_note|

nRF IEEE 802.15.4 radio driver
------------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Thread
------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Wi-Fi®
------

* Removed support for DES-encrypted private keys in Wi-Fi Enterprise (EAP-TLS) following the update to Mbed TLS 4.1.0/TF-PSA-Crypto 1.1.0 in the |NCS|.
  TF-PSA-Crypto no longer implements DES ciphers, therefore PKCS#8 client keys encrypted with DES-EDE3-CBC cannot be decrypted during the TLS handshake (including the FreeRADIUS ``rsa2k`` test certificates).
  Use :file:`zephyr/samples/net/wifi/test_certs/rsa2k_no_des`, re-encrypt credentials with AES (PBES2), or use unencrypted keys when provisioning enterprise credentials.

>   See the :ref:`zephyr:wifi_mgmt` documentation for details.

Reviewer 5: * Added a new snippet nordic-wifi-enterprise to be used for Wi-Fi enterprise, see migration guide for details.

> 

Reviewer 5: `hostap_crypto` library now has single backend `CONFIG_HOSTAP_CRYPTO_ALT_PSA` for all modes, older one `CONFIG_HOSTAP_CRYPTO_ALT_LEGACY_PSA` is now removed.

Author: Is this WiFI related? @krish2718

High-Performance Framework (HPF)
--------------------------------

* Added support for the nRF54LV10A SoC in HPF MSPI.

IPC radio firmware
------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Matter bridge
-------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

nRF Audio (formerly nRF5340 Audio)
----------------------------------

* Renamed the application to nRF Audio from nRF5340 Audio.
* Added:

  * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_AUDIO_BROADCAST_BASE_PRINT` Kconfig option to print the contents of the BASE when it is received.
    This option is intended for debugging purposes.
    It is only valid for the :ref:`broadcast sink application <nrf_audio_broadcast_sink_app>`.

  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LTO` to enable link-time optimization for the application.
    It improves application performance and reduces code size.

* Updated:

  * The call to :c:func:`hci_vs_sdc_iso_read_tx_timestamp` so that, when sending ISO data, it is performed at regular intervals instead of every SDU interval.
    This change reduces the frequency of application-controller time synchronization, while significantly reducing processing overhead.

>   * The group creation in the :ref:`unicast client application <nrf_audio_unicast_client_app>` so that it waits until all connected devices have finished discovery.

Reviewer 6: * The unicast server (headset) now exposes its source endpoint as default. This means that the unicast client (gateway) can choose whether to enable it or not.

  * The partition layout for the ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp``, ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp``, and ``nrf54lm20dk/nrf54lm20a/cpuapp`` board targets is not backward compatible with the previous versions of the sample.

* :ref:`ble_mesh_dfu_target` sample:

  * The partition layout for the ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp``, ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp``, and ``nrf54lm20dk/nrf54lm20a/cpuapp`` board targets is not backward compatible with the previous versions of the sample.

Bluetooth Fast Pair samples
---------------------------

* Updated:

  * The DTS overlays of the Fast Pair samples to use the new ``zephyr,mapped-partition`` compatible property for each partition node.
    The change aligns the board target overlays with the layout produced by the Partition Manager-to-DTS helper script (:file:`scripts/pm_to_dts.py`).
  * The sample documentation to remove all references to the ``nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp`` board target, including descriptions of nRF54H-specific solutions such as the legacy SUIT DFU integration.
    Support for this target was already dropped during the IronSide SE migration in the |NCS| v3.1.0 release.

* :ref:`fast_pair_locator_tag` sample:

> 

Reviewer 7: Please add the following entry for the Fast Pair Locator Tag:

```
    * Added initial support for the nRF54L15 TAG (``nrf54l15tag/nrf54l15/cpuapp`` board target).
      The ``nrf54l15tag/nrf54l15/cpuapp`` board target is a complete prototyping platform in a compact form factor.
      It features the nRF54L15 SoC with additional sensors, RGB LED, button, and a battery.
      The sample on this board target can closely represent a final product based on the nRF54L15 SoC.
```

      The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_MCUBOOT_DISABLE_SELF_RWX` Kconfig option now replaces the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FPROTECT`, which is associated with the :ref:`fprotect_readme` library.
      The new mechanism uses a dedicated RRAMC region to disable read, write, and execute access to the MCUboot partition right before jumping to the application image.

  * Fixed the ringing status indications with the green LED flashes for reference board targets.
    A ringing status indication was often skipped during the motion detection event.

Cellular samples
----------------

* Removed:

  * All nRF Cloud REST samples as the nRF Cloud REST library has been removed.
  * Usage of nRF Cloud logging in samples as the feature is being sunset.
  * The Cellular: nRF Cloud multi-service sample.

* :ref:`crypto_tls` sample:

  * Updated the TLS version support section after the Mbed TLS v4.1.0 update.

* :ref:`gnss_sample` sample:

  * Updated to use the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_coap` library instead of the removed nRF Cloud REST library.

* :ref:`modem_shell_application` sample:

>   * Updated to use the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_coap` library instead of the removed nRF Cloud REST library.

Reviewer 8: Please add the following for modem_shell sample:

` * Added devicetree overlays for data throughput testing.`

    There are no :file:`overlay-dfu.conf` and :file:`sysbuild-dfu.conf` files anymore.
    DFU support is enabled as a suffixed configuration.

* :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_light_lc` sample:

  * The partition layout for the ``nrf5340dk/nrf5340/cpuapp/ns`` board target is not backward compatible with the previous versions of the sample.
    This affects builds with support for the EMDS.

* :ref:`ble_mesh_dfu_distributor` sample:

  * The partition layout for the ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp``, ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp``, and ``nrf54lm20dk/nrf54lm20a/cpuapp`` board targets is not backward compatible with the previous versions of the sample.

* :ref:`ble_mesh_dfu_target` sample:

  * The partition layout for the ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp``, ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp``, and ``nrf54lm20dk/nrf54lm20a/cpuapp`` board targets is not backward compatible with the previous versions of the sample.

Bluetooth Fast Pair samples
---------------------------

* Updated:

  * The DTS overlays of the Fast Pair samples to use the new ``zephyr,mapped-partition`` compatible property for each partition node.

>     The change aligns the board target overlays with the layout produced by the Partition Manager-to-DTS helper script (:file:`scripts/pm_to_dts.py`).

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    The change aligns the board target overlays with the layout produced by the Partition Manager-to-DTS helper script (:file:`scripts/pm_to_dts.py`).
    See the :ref:`migration_3.4_google_fast_pair` guide to learn how to align the DTS partition map in your project using the new property.
```

  * Fixed an issue where the :c:func:`bt_hogp_rep_unsubscribe` function did not clear the notification callback, which prevented the :c:func:`bt_hogp_rep_subscribe` function from succeeding after unsubscribing.

Common Application Framework
----------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Debug libraries
---------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

DFU libraries
-------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Gazell libraries
----------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Modem libraries
---------------

* :ref:`lib_location` library:

  * Fixed an issue where cloud location requests were not sent when cellular profile 1 was active.

* :ref:`nrf_modem_lib_readme` library:

  * Added support for building for the nRF91 board without Partition Manager.
    This requires ``cpuapp_cpucell_ipc_shm_ctrl``, ``cpuapp_cpucell_ipc_shm_heap``, and ``cpucell_cpuapp_ipc_shm_heap`` partitions to be defined in the devicetree.
    Use a separate ``cpucell_cpuapp_ipc_shm_trace`` partition for modem tracing instead of splitting the ``cpucell_cpuapp_ipc_shm_heap`` partition.

* Removed the deprecated PDN library.

>   Use the PDN management functionality in the :ref:`lte_lc_readme` library instead.

Reviewer: I believe this should be right under the Modem libraries title.

  * Deprecated Kconfig options and headers:

    * The ``CONFIG_NRF_PLATFORM_HALTIUM`` Kconfig option.
      Use :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOC_SERIES_NRF54H` or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOC_SERIES_NRF92` instead.
    * The ``CONFIG_NRF_PLATFORM_LUMOS`` Kconfig option.
      Use :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOC_SERIES_NRF54L` or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOC_SERIES_NRF71` instead.
    * The ``SB_CONFIG_NRF_HALTIUM_GENERATE_UICR`` Kconfig option (alias for :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_NRF_GENERATE_UICR`).
    * The ``HALTIUM_PLATFORM_PSA_KEY_ID()`` macro (alias for ``NRF_PLATFORM_PSA_KEY_ID()``).
    * The :file:`haltium_power.h` and :file:`haltium_pm_s2ram.h` headers, which forward to the new headers.

  See `Migration notes for nRF Connect SDK v3.4.0`_ for migration instructions.

  The deprecated symbols, headers, and macros remain available with a deprecation warning and are scheduled for removal in a future release.

* Consolidated the previously per-SoC :file:`soc_power.c` and :file:`soc_pm_s2ram.c` sources for the nRF54H and nRF92 Series in a single shared location under :file:`zephyr/soc/nordic/common/`.

Bootloaders and DFU
===================

> 

Reviewer 10: Pleas add & redact:
Signing procedures were reworked so signed mcuboot's images now contains their expected image address in the image header and the rom-fixed-flag - which is used to match image candidate to relevant image target. This feature is provided for (sysbuild) project partitioned using DTS. Support of similar feature used for image's expected to run along with MCUboo't direct-XIP mode is keep as it was.

* Renamed the application to nRF Audio from nRF5340 Audio.
* Added:

  * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_AUDIO_BROADCAST_BASE_PRINT` Kconfig option to print the contents of the BASE when it is received.
    This option is intended for debugging purposes.
    It is only valid for the :ref:`broadcast sink application <nrf_audio_broadcast_sink_app>`.

  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LTO` to enable link-time optimization for the application.
    It improves application performance and reduces code size.

* Updated:

  * The call to :c:func:`hci_vs_sdc_iso_read_tx_timestamp` so that, when sending ISO data, it is performed at regular intervals instead of every SDU interval.
    This change reduces the frequency of application-controller time synchronization, while significantly reducing processing overhead.
  * The group creation in the :ref:`unicast client application <nrf_audio_unicast_client_app>` so that it waits until all connected devices have finished discovery.
  * The unicast server (headset) now exposes its source endpoint as default.
    This means that the unicast client (gateway) can choose whether to enable it or not.

nRF Desktop
-----------

> * Updated application configurations to change the non-volatile memory self-protection mechanism in the MCUboot image on the nRF54L board targets (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOC_SERIES_NRF54L`).

Reviewer 11: Hi @FrancescoSer. 
Consider adding the following note for nRF Desktop (unless this information will eventually be covered by "global" release note or highlight):

```
* Updated application configurations to use devicetree (DTS) for defining non-volatile memory partitions instead of the deprecated :ref:`partition_manager`.
  This includes configuration of main application image and other sysbuild images built together with it (for example bootloader).
```
@maje-emb, is the wording ok for you?

Memfault integration
--------------------

* Added:

  * Devicetree support for the internal flash coredump backend (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MEMFAULT_NCS_INTERNAL_FLASH_BACKED_COREDUMP`).
    The backend now locates its storage from a fixed partition labeled ``memfault_coredump_partition`` when Partition Manager is disabled, while continuing to support Partition Manager when enabled.
  * The :ref:`snippet-memfault-coredump` snippet that supplies a board-specific partition overlay for flash-backed coredump storage on common DKs and Thingy:91 or Thingy:91 X.

* Updated Memfault to version 1.40.0.
  See the `Memfault firmware SDK changelog`_ for details.

AVSystem integration
--------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

nRF Cloud integration
---------------------

* Added a ``memfaultEn`` control key in the Device Shadow, enabling dynamic enable/disable of Memfault chunk uploads at runtime.
  This is done through Device Shadow updates.
  A new control variable is used.

CoreMark integration
--------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

DULT integration
----------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

MCUboot
=======

> 

Reviewer 10: Pleas add & redact:
Update all image's matching exercises to use explicit image address (ref.: CONFIG_MCUBOOT_CHECK_HEADER_LOAD_ADDRES). This method uses ih_load_address field of the image header instead of reset vector address. This allows to match
incoming image to the partition even when it is for instance encrypted, as the image header is always plain-text. New method is applied by default when MCUboot is build with DTS partitioning.
This imply that
Firmware need to be signed with
imgtool.py sign --rom-fixed <partition_address> parameter in order to involve this feature. Which is asured by the NCS signing procedures,

.. _ncs_release_notes_340:

|NCS| v3.4.0 Release Notes
##########################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

|NCS| delivers reference software and supporting libraries for developing low-power wireless applications with Nordic Semiconductor products in the nRF52, nRF53, nRF54, nRF70, and nRF91 Series.
The SDK includes open source projects (TF-M, MCUboot, OpenThread, Matter, and the Zephyr RTOS), which are continuously integrated and redistributed with the SDK.

Release notes might refer to "experimental" support for features, which indicates that the feature is incomplete in functionality or verification, and can be expected to change in future releases.
To learn more, see :ref:`software_maturity`.

Highlights
**********

The |NCS| v3.4.0 is based on Zephyr 4.4, Mbed TLS 4.1.0, and TF-M 2.3.

> This release is going to have long term support (LTS) for a period of 5 years.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release has long term support (LTS) for a period of five years.
```

During this period, patch releases will provide updates for security vulnerabilities and critical bug fixes.
These patch releases should not contain breaking changes unless security fixes require them.

The |NCS| v3.4.0 and its patch releases are the last |NCS| releases that include support for nRF52 Series devices.
The nRF52 Series devices are considered feature complete, and support for them will be removed from samples and applications in the development branch.

Added the following features as experimental:

* PMIC:

>   * The following battery health features have been added to Nordic's fuel gauge algorithm and fuel gauge sample:

Reviewer 12: Link to sample could be added

    * The ``SB_CONFIG_NRF_HALTIUM_GENERATE_UICR`` Kconfig option (alias for :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_NRF_GENERATE_UICR`).
    * The ``HALTIUM_PLATFORM_PSA_KEY_ID()`` macro (alias for ``NRF_PLATFORM_PSA_KEY_ID()``).
    * The :file:`haltium_power.h` and :file:`haltium_pm_s2ram.h` headers, which forward to the new headers.

  See `Migration notes for nRF Connect SDK v3.4.0`_ for migration instructions.

  The deprecated symbols, headers, and macros remain available with a deprecation warning and are scheduled for removal in a future release.

* Consolidated the previously per-SoC :file:`soc_power.c` and :file:`soc_pm_s2ram.c` sources for the nRF54H and nRF92 Series in a single shared location under :file:`zephyr/soc/nordic/common/`.

Bootloaders and DFU
===================

* Added support for the new LCS API to control bootloader behavior.
  When this API is enabled, the bootloader can skip signature verification in early LCS states and abort the boot process in the decommissioned state.

* Fixed DTS support for nRF5340 network core images when :ref:`b0n <bootloader>` was enabled.

Developing with nRF91 Series
============================

> |no_changes_yet_note|

Reviewer 2: Please add the below for devicetree: 

`* Updated the nRF91 Series device to configure partitions using the device tree. See :ref:`nrf91_dt_partitions`for more details.`

  When enabled, the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CRACEN_PROVISION_PROT_RAM_INV_SLOTS_ON_INIT` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CRACEN_PROVISION_PROT_RAM_INV_SLOTS_WITH_IMPORT` Kconfig options become unavailable, as they implement the same feature through alternative provisioning paths.
* Updated builds without Partition Manager to generate the :file:`bootconf.hex` file when |NSIB| is used as the bootloader.

Developing with nRF54H Series
=============================

* Updated MCUboot to support MRAM write protection for up to four images.

Developing with nRF53 Series
============================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with nRF52 Series
============================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with Thingy:91 X
===========================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with Thingy:91
=========================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with Thingy:53
=========================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with PMICs
=====================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with Front-End Modules
=================================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with custom boards
=============================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Security
========

> * Added support for X25519 key pair storage in the :ref:`Key Management Unit (KMU) <ug_kmu_guides_supported_key_types>`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Added:
 
  * Support for X25519 key pair storage in the :ref:`Key Management Unit (KMU) <ug_kmu_guides_supported_key_types>`.
  * Documentation page about :ref:`ug_tfm_partitioning`.

```
Recent addition in #29331

* Renamed IronSide Secure Element to IronSide Secure Enclave.

> * Updated:

Reviewer 4: Maybe this "Renamed" can be listed under Updated?

  See the :ref:`zephyr:wifi_mgmt` documentation for details.

Applications
============

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`application <applications>`.

Connectivity bridge
-------------------

* Updated to use devicetree (DTS) for defining NVM partitions instead of the deprecated :ref:`partition_manager`.

High-Performance Framework (HPF)
--------------------------------

* Added support for the nRF54LV10A SoC in HPF MSPI.

IPC radio firmware
------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Matter bridge
-------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

nRF Audio (formerly nRF5340 Audio)
----------------------------------

* Renamed the application to nRF Audio from nRF5340 Audio.
* Added:

  * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_AUDIO_BROADCAST_BASE_PRINT` Kconfig option to print the contents of the BASE when it is received.
    This option is intended for debugging purposes.
    It is only valid for the :ref:`broadcast sink application <nrf_audio_broadcast_sink_app>`.

  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LTO` to enable link-time optimization for the application.
    It improves application performance and reduces code size.

> 

Reviewer 2: The changelog entry needs to be added here: https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/compare/da5e12f3dac3877955443cb2ffe984627ee7f5af..23f52b9b5e091d9c12b213ebcc4212e7d7474751#diff-9460bd2e76b8fe433e47a738942f77d38f18d5967374101c756a015372b8cc22,  which was removed from PR  https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/29246 to add to the 3.4 release notes.

    This affects builds with support for the EMDS.

* :ref:`ble_mesh_dfu_distributor` sample:

  * The partition layout for the ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp``, ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp``, and ``nrf54lm20dk/nrf54lm20a/cpuapp`` board targets is not backward compatible with the previous versions of the sample.

* :ref:`ble_mesh_dfu_target` sample:

  * The partition layout for the ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp``, ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp``, and ``nrf54lm20dk/nrf54lm20a/cpuapp`` board targets is not backward compatible with the previous versions of the sample.

Bluetooth Fast Pair samples
---------------------------

* Updated:

  * The DTS overlays of the Fast Pair samples to use the new ``zephyr,mapped-partition`` compatible property for each partition node.
    The change aligns the board target overlays with the layout produced by the Partition Manager-to-DTS helper script (:file:`scripts/pm_to_dts.py`).
    See the :ref:`migration_3.4_google_fast_pair` guide to learn how to align the DTS partition map in your project using the new property.

>   * The sample documentation to remove all references to the ``nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp`` board target, including descriptions of nRF54H-specific solutions such as the legacy SUIT DFU integration.

Reviewer 9: Why did you remove the initial part of the changelog (see the deleted part in the release-notes-changelog.rst file)?

* Removed the remaining ``nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp`` board target configurations from the following samples:

  * :ref:`fast_pair_locator_tag`
  * :ref:`fast_pair_input_device`

  Updated the sample documentation to remove all references to the ``nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp`` board target, including descriptions of nRF54H-specific solutions such as the legacy SUIT DFU integration.

Added the following features as experimental:

* PMIC:

  * The following battery health features have been added to Nordic's fuel gauge algorithm and fuel gauge sample:

    * State-of-health tracking
    * Cycle count tracking
    * Automatic battery replacement detection

* Bluetooth®:

  * HID Shorter Connection Intervals (SCI) support on both the HID device side (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_HIDS_SCI`) and the HID host side (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_HOGP_SCI`).
    This feature lets a Bluetooth LE HID host negotiate sub-7.5 ms connection intervals with a Bluetooth LE HID device for lower input latency in high-performance HID applications.

Deprecated:

* Deprecated features will not be removed from the LTS branch.
  It is recommended that all new designs using Nordic devices exclude deprecated features for active development and deployment.

* The Partition Manager is a component in the |NCS| that handles the flash memory partitioning at build time.
  This functionality is now replaced by Zephyr's default devicetree-based flash partitioning when multi-image builds are involved.

>   It is recommended that all new designs using Nordic devices, excluding the nRF91 Series devices, are to be built with DTS instead of Partition Manager.

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
  It is recommended that all new designs using Nordic devices are to be built with DTS instead of Partition Manager.
```
91 Series devices should now also use DTS

  Partition Manager will be removed from the |NCS| by the end of 2026 from the main branch.

  Samples will be adapted to showcase the new way of allocating partitions within the v3.4.0 branch.
  Such adaptations will also be reflected in the main for future releases.

Toolchain:

> * The |NCS| toolchain is now based on the Zephyr SDK v1.0.1, with GCC as the recommended compiler.

Author: Add link, verify versions

* Updated builds without Partition Manager to generate the :file:`bootconf.hex` file when |NSIB| is used as the bootloader.

Developing with nRF54H Series
=============================

* Updated MCUboot to support MRAM write protection for up to four images.

Developing with nRF53 Series
============================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with nRF52 Series
============================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with Thingy:91 X
===========================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with Thingy:91
=========================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with Thingy:53
=========================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with PMICs
=====================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with Front-End Modules
=================================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with custom boards
=============================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Security
========

* Added:

  * Support for X25519 key pair storage in the :ref:`Key Management Unit (KMU) <ug_kmu_guides_supported_key_types>`.

>   * Documentation page about Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) partitioning.

Author: fix linking

  * The group creation in the :ref:`unicast client application <nrf_audio_unicast_client_app>` so that it waits until all connected devices have finished discovery.
  * The unicast server (headset) now exposes its source endpoint as default.
    This means that the unicast client (gateway) can choose whether to enable it or not.

nRF Desktop
-----------

* Updated the application configurations to use devicetree (DTS) for defining non-volatile memory partitions instead of the deprecated :ref:`partition_manager`.
  This includes configuration of main application image and other sysbuild images built together with it (for example bootloader).

* Updated the application configurations to change the non-volatile memory self-protection mechanism in the MCUboot image on the nRF54L board targets (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOC_SERIES_NRF54L`).
  The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_MCUBOOT_DISABLE_SELF_RWX` Kconfig option is used instead of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FPROTECT` to disable read, write, and execute from the memory area that holds the MCUboot bootloader.

>   This is done to improve the protection of the MCUboot immutable bootloader code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Updated:

  * The application configurations to use devicetree (DTS) for defining non-volatile memory partitions instead of the deprecated :ref:`partition_manager`.
    This includes configuration of main application image and other sysbuild images built together with it (for example bootloader).

  * The application configurations to change the non-volatile memory self-protection mechanism in the MCUboot image on the nRF54L board targets (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOC_SERIES_NRF54L`).
    The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NCS_MCUBOOT_DISABLE_SELF_RWX` Kconfig option is used instead of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_FPROTECT` to disable read, write, and execute from the memory area that holds the MCUboot bootloader.
    This is done to improve the protection of the MCUboot immutable bootloader code.
```

* :ref:`ble_mesh_dfu_target` sample:

  * The partition layout for the ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp``, ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp``, and ``nrf54lm20dk/nrf54lm20a/cpuapp`` board targets is not backward compatible with the previous versions of the sample.

Bluetooth Fast Pair samples
---------------------------

* Removed the remaining ``nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp`` board target configurations from the following samples:

  * :ref:`fast_pair_locator_tag`
  * :ref:`fast_pair_input_device`

* Updated:

  * The DTS overlays of the Fast Pair samples to use the new ``zephyr,mapped-partition`` compatible property for each partition node.
    The change aligns the board target overlays with the layout produced by the Partition Manager-to-DTS helper script (:file:`scripts/pm_to_dts.py`).
    See the :ref:`migration_3.4_google_fast_pair` guide to learn how to align the DTS partition map in your project using the new property.
  * The sample documentation to remove all references to the ``nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp`` board target, including descriptions of nRF54H-specific solutions such as the legacy SUIT DFU integration.

>     Support for this target was already dropped during the IronSide SE migration in the |NCS| v3.1.0 release.

Reviewer 9: The first and the last changelog items are linked together and should be merged together as a single changelog item (like it was in the initial changelog variant):

```suggestion
* Updated the DTS overlays of the Fast Pair samples to use the new ``zephyr,mapped-partition`` compatible property for each partition node.
  The change aligns the board target overlays with the layout produced by the Partition Manager-to-DTS helper script (:file:`scripts/pm_to_dts.py`).
  See the :ref:`migration_3.4_google_fast_pair` guide to learn how to align the DTS partition map in your project using the new property.
 
* Removed the remaining ``nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp`` board target configurations from the Fast Pair samples.
  Removed references to the ``nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp`` board target from the Fast Pair sample documentation, including descriptions of nRF54H-specific solutions such as the legacy SUIT DFU integration.
  Support for this target was already dropped during the IronSide SE migration in the |NCS| v3.1.0 release.
```

  * The implementation of the Matter Door lock sample has been relocated to the `nRF Door Lock and Access Control Add-on`_.
    The add-on is an extensible solution offering additional features and expanded integration capabilities.
    It enables the development of not only Matter-compliant door locks, but also those supporting Aliro and hybrid Matter and Aliro combined functionalities, thereby facilitating the design of versatile smart lock solutions.
  * The AWS IoT integration variant from the :ref:`matter_light_bulb_sample` sample.

Networking samples
------------------

* Removed Partition Manager for all Wi-Fi targets from the following samples:

  * :ref:`mqtt_sample` sample
  * :ref:`udp_sample` sample
  * :ref:`net_coap_client_sample` sample
  * :ref:`download_sample` sample
  * :ref:`https_client` sample
  * :ref:`http_server` sample
  * :ref:`aws_iot` sample
  * :ref:`azure_iot_hub` sample

  Flash and SRAM partitions are supplied using devicetree overlays instead.

* :ref:`mqtt_sample` sample:

  * Added the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_ECC_SECP_R1_384` Kconfig option to the TLS overlay files, which is required by the CA certificate of ``mqtt.nordicsemi.academy``.

> 

Reviewer: Extra empty line

  * Removed the configuration page for the deprecated legacy crypto backend (:file:`libraries/security/nrf_security/doc/backend_config`).
    Configure cryptographic features using :ref:`psa_crypto_support` and :ref:`ug_crypto_supported_features` instead.

Mbed TLS
--------

* Updated Mbed TLS to v4.1.0 (from v3.6.6):

  * Removed support for legacy, deprecated Mbed TLS Crypto APIs and related tests.
  * Rearranged Kconfig options related to Mbed TLS in various files under :ref:`nrf_security`.
  * Removed outdated Kconfig options related to Mbed TLS in various files under :ref:`nrf_security`.
  * :ref:`nrf_security` now uses the Mbed TLS integration from Zephyr as-is (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MBEDTLS_BUILTIN`) while replacing upstream TF-PSA-Crypto with Oberon PSA Crypto (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TF_PSA_CRYPTO_CUSTOM`).

  For more information, see the `Migration notes for nRF Connect SDK v3.4.0`_.

Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M)
-------------------------

* Updated to version 2.3.0.

Protocols
=========

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`protocol <protocols>`.
See `Samples`_ for lists of changes for the protocol-related samples.

Bluetooth® LE

> -------------

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
Bluetooth LE
------------
```

    The hardware clock frequency varies between different SoCs, and the host tools require this information to correctly interpret the received timestamps.
    This change breaks the backward compatibility between the library and host tools due to modifications in the info RTT channel string layout.
    The nRF Profiler event descriptions are now sent within the ``<ev_info_start>`` and ``<ev_info_stop>`` markers.
    System configuration details are now sent within the ``<sys_config_start>`` and ``<sys_config_stop>`` markers.
    The system configuration details are formatted as a list of key-value data, for example, ``key1,value1``.
    Subsequent entries are separated by newlines.
    The value returned by the :c:func:`sys_clock_hw_cycles_per_sec` function is sent using the ``sys_clock_hw_cycles_per_sec`` key.

Shell libraries
---------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

sdk-nrfxlib
-----------

See the changelog for each library in the :doc:`nrfxlib documentation <nrfxlib:README>` for additional information.

Scripts
=======

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`script <scripts>`.

* :ref:`west_sbom` script:

  * Added:

>     * Licence handling of the LLVM toolchain libraries.

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
    * License handling of the LLVM toolchain libraries.
```

    * Support for HEX-only ``softdevice`` sysbuild domains.
    * Updated the SPDX License List database to version 3.28.0.

* :ref:`nrf_profiler_script` script:

  * Updated the scripts to use hardware clock information from SoC to enable accurate conversion from hardware clock cycles to seconds.
    Refactored the parser to support the new RTT communication layout, including the handling of ``<ev_info_...>`` and ``<sys_config_...>`` data markers.
  * Fixed the ``ms_per_timestamp_tick`` parameter (defined in the :file:`rtt_nordic_config.py`) to accurately align with the system clock's frequency of the nRF52, nRF53, and nRF91 Series SoCs.

Integrations
============

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`integration <integrations>`.

Google Fast Pair integration
----------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Edge Impulse integration
------------------------

* Removed the deprecated Edge Impulse wrapper library.

>   The library is replaced by Edge Impulse integration in `Edge AI Add-on for nRF Connect SDK`_.

Reviewer 12: Shouldn't this entry about wrapper library under Other libraries? It was listed here: https://ncsdoc.z6.web.core.windows.net/ncs/3.3.0/nrf/libraries/others/index.html. Also, there could be another entry here specifically about integration.

    * The SPAKE2+ for Matter is now correctly listed as supported instead of experimental.
    * The WPA3-SAE hash-to-element algorithm is now correctly listed as a KDF algorithm, not a PAKE algorithm.
    * The SHA-256/192 and SHAKE hashing algorithms are now correctly listed as not supported in the CRACEN driver and Experimental in the nrf_oberon driver.
      The only exception is the SHAKE256 512 bits algorithm, which is supported in both the CRACEN and nrf_oberon drivers.

* Removed the Kconfig option ``CONFIG_NRF_SECURITY_ADVANCED``.

Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M)
-------------------------

* Updated to version 2.3.0.

Protocols
=========

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`protocol <protocols>`.
See `Samples`_ for lists of changes for the protocol-related samples.

Bluetooth® LE
-------------

* Added the following Kconfig options to enable support for certain HCI commands:

  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_DATA_RELATED_ADDRESS_CHANGES`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_RF_PATH_COMPENSATION`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_ISO_TEST`

> Bluetooth Mesh

Reviewer 14: Please add here what was mentioned in comment above.
backport issue from this PR: https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/29213

DECT NR+
--------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Enhanced ShockBurst (ESB)
-------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Gazell
------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Matter
------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Matter fork
+++++++++++

|no_changes_yet_note|

nRF IEEE 802.15.4 radio driver
------------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Thread
------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Wi-Fi®
------

* Removed support for DES-encrypted private keys in Wi-Fi Enterprise (EAP-TLS) following the update to Mbed TLS 4.1.0/TF-PSA-Crypto 1.1.0 in |NCS|.
  TF-PSA-Crypto no longer implements DES ciphers, therefore PKCS#8 client keys encrypted with DES-EDE3-CBC cannot be decrypted during the TLS handshake (including the FreeRADIUS ``rsa2k`` test certificates).
  Use :file:`zephyr/samples/net/wifi/test_certs/rsa2k_no_des`, re-encrypt credentials with AES (PBES2), or use unencrypted keys when provisioning enterprise credentials.
  See the :ref:`zephyr:wifi_mgmt` documentation for details.

Applications
============

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`application <applications>`.

Connectivity bridge
-------------------

> |no_changes_yet_note|

Reviewer 15: ```suggestion
* Updated to use devicetree (DTS) for defining NVM partitions instead of the deprecated :ref:`partition_manager`.
```

    * :ref:`bluetooth_iso_combined_bis_cis`
    * :ref:`ble_llpm`
    * :ref:`bluetooth_radio_coex_1wire_sample`
    * :ref:`ble_radio_notification_conn_cb`
    * :ref:`bt_scanning_while_connecting`
    * :ref:`ble_subrating`

* :ref:`peripheral_hids_mouse` sample:

  * Added:

    * Support for continuous HID report sending (one report notification for each connection interval) as well as statistics for continuous report sending.
    * A configuration with support for the HID Shorter Connection Intervals (SCI).
      It is enabled with the ``hid_sci`` suffix.

* :ref:`bluetooth_central_hids` sample:

  * Added:

    * Continuous receive mode when a high report rate is detected, with periodic statistics for each batch of received reports for timing quality assessment (for use with continuous sending on a HID peripheral).
    * A configuration with support for the HID Shorter Connection Intervals (SCI) on the HID host side.
      It is enabled with the ``hid_sci`` suffix.
    * Support for connecting multiple HID peripherals.

  * Updated the sample to use deferred logging to reduce the overhead of logging.
    This may cause messages to be delayed up to around 100 ms.

> 

Reviewer 16: need the following entry for the backported changes (see [this comment](https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/29411#discussion_r3395118757))
the backport PR: https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/29466
```suggestion
* :ref:`direct_test_mode` sample:

  * Updated the sample to use the :ref:`nrfxlib:softdevice_controller` to run DTM commands.
  * Removed the following experimental and non-mandatory features:

    * USB support.
    * CTE receiver support.
      CTE transmitter is still supported.
    * Antenna switching support.
```

      The new mechanism uses a dedicated RRAMC region to disable read, write, and execute access to the MCUboot partition right before jumping to the application image.

  * Fixed the ringing status indications with the green LED flashes for reference board targets.
    A ringing status indication was often skipped during the motion detection event.

Cellular samples
----------------

* Removed:

  * All nRF Cloud REST samples as the nRF Cloud REST library has been removed.
  * Usage of nRF Cloud logging in samples as the feature is being sunset.
  * The Cellular: nRF Cloud multi-service sample.

* :ref:`gnss_sample` sample:

  * Updated to use the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_coap` library instead of the removed nRF Cloud REST library.

* :ref:`modem_shell_application` sample:

  * Updated to use the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_coap` library instead of the removed nRF Cloud REST library.

Cryptography samples
--------------------

* Added support for the ``nrf54ls05dk/nrf54ls05a/cpuapp`` board target to all samples, except :ref:`crypto_aes_kw`, :ref:`crypto_kmu_cracen_usage`, and :ref:`crypto_persistent_key`.

> 

Reviewer 4: Add from #29023 :
```
* :ref:`crypto_tls` sample:

  * Updated the TLS version support section after the Mbed TLS v4.1.0 update.
```

* `Modem firmware compatibility matrix for the nRF9160 SoC`_

Use the latest version of the `Programmer app`_ of `nRF Connect for Desktop`_ to update the modem firmware.
See `Programming nRF91 Series DK firmware`_ for instructions.

Modem-related libraries and versions
====================================

.. list-table:: Modem-related libraries and versions
   :widths: 15 10
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Library name
     - Version information
   * - Modem library
     - `Changelog <Modem library changelog for v3.4.0_>`_
   * - LwM2M carrier library
     - `Changelog <LwM2M carrier library changelog for v3.4.0_>`_

Migration notes
***************

See the `Migration notes for nRF Connect SDK v3.4.0`_ for the changes required or recommended when migrating your application from |NCS| v3.3.0 to |NCS| v3.4.0.

Known issues
************

Known issues are only tracked for the latest official release.
See `known issues for nRF Connect SDK v3.4.0`_ for the list of issues valid for the latest release.

.. _ncs_release_notes_340_changelog:

Changelog
*********

The following sections provide detailed lists of changes by component.

IDE, OS, and tool support
=========================

> |no_changes_yet_note|

Reviewer 4: For https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/29309
```suggestion
* Updated :ref:`additional_nordic_sw_tools_os_support` with an entry for Linux - Debian 12 (ARM64 as Tier 1).
```

Board support
=============

* Updated the Thingy:91 and Thingy:91 X devicetree partitions to match the Partition Manager partitions.

Build and configuration system
==============================

* Removed the internal Haltium and Lumos platform abstractions from the Nordic SoC integration.
  All references to ``NRF_PLATFORM_HALTIUM`` and ``NRF_PLATFORM_LUMOS`` have been replaced with explicit checks for ``SOC_SERIES_NRF54H``, ``SOC_SERIES_NRF92``, ``SOC_SERIES_NRF54L``, or ``SOC_SERIES_NRF71``.

  * Renamed Kconfig options and headers:

    * ``SB_CONFIG_NRF_HALTIUM_GENERATE_UICR`` to :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_NRF_GENERATE_UICR`.
    * The ``HALTIUM_PLATFORM_PSA_KEY_ID()`` macro to ``NRF_PLATFORM_PSA_KEY_ID()`` (in :file:`include/psa/nrf_platform_key_ids.h`).
    * :file:`<haltium_power.h>` to :file:`<soc_power.h>`.

>     * :file:`<haltium_pm_s2ram.h>` to :file:`<soc_pm_s2ram.h>`.

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
    * :file:`haltium_power.h` to :file:`soc_power.h`.
    * :file:`haltium_pm_s2ram.h` to :file:`soc_pm_s2ram.h`.
```

  * Deprecated Kconfig options and headers:

    * The ``CONFIG_NRF_PLATFORM_HALTIUM`` Kconfig option.
      Use :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOC_SERIES_NRF54H` or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOC_SERIES_NRF92` instead.
    * The ``CONFIG_NRF_PLATFORM_LUMOS`` Kconfig option.
      Use :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOC_SERIES_NRF54L` or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOC_SERIES_NRF71` instead.
    * The ``SB_CONFIG_NRF_HALTIUM_GENERATE_UICR`` Kconfig option (alias for :kconfig:option:`SB_CONFIG_NRF_GENERATE_UICR`).
    * The ``HALTIUM_PLATFORM_PSA_KEY_ID()`` macro (alias for ``NRF_PLATFORM_PSA_KEY_ID()``).

>     * The :file:`<haltium_power.h>` and :file:`<haltium_pm_s2ram.h>` headers, which forward to the new headers.

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
    * The :file:`haltium_power.h` and :file:`haltium_pm_s2ram.h` headers, which forward to the new headers.
```

  See :ref:`migration_3.4` for migration instructions.

  The deprecated symbols, headers, and macros remain available with a deprecation warning and are scheduled for removal in a future release.

* Consolidated the previously per-SoC :file:`soc_power.c` and :file:`soc_pm_s2ram.c` sources for the nRF54H and nRF92 Series in a single shared location under :file:`zephyr/soc/nordic/common/`.

Bootloaders and DFU
===================

* Added support for the new LCS API to control bootloader behavior.
  When this API is enabled, the bootloader can skip signature verification in early LCS states and abort the boot process in the decommissioned state.

* Fixed DTS support for nRF5340 network core images when :ref:`b0n <bootloader>` was enabled.

Developing with nRF91 Series
============================

> |no_changes_yet_note|

Reviewer 12: All such instances to be removed.

Author: TBD later

Developing with nRF70 Series
============================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with nRF54L Series
=============================

* Updated builds without Partition Manager to generate the :file:`bootconf.hex` file when |NSIB| is used as the bootloader.

Developing with nRF54H Series
=============================

* Updated:

>    * MCUboot to support MRAM write protection for up to four images.

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
* Updated MCUboot to support MRAM write protection for up to four images.
```

Developing with nRF53 Series
============================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with nRF52 Series
============================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with Thingy:91 X
===========================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with Thingy:91
=========================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with Thingy:53
=========================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with PMICs
=====================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with Front-End Modules
=================================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Developing with custom boards
=============================

|no_changes_yet_note|

Security

> ========

Reviewer 4: Mirror edits to this section from https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/29023
Note that the PR there is moving Security libraries under Security, so please mirror that edit too both here and in the cleaned changelog.

Reviewer 4: @FrancescoSer , final version of edits from #29023, to be merged with the existing lines -- note the move of Security libraries as subsection here (delete it further down)
```
* Added support for the X25519 key pair storage in the :ref:`Key Management Unit (KMU) <ug_kmu_guides_supported_key_types>`.
* Updated:

  * Oberon PSA Crypto from v1.5.4 to v2.0.0.
    The new version aligns with TF-PSA-Crypto v1.1.0.
  * How the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_SECURITY` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_CRYPTO` interact with each other.
    :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_SECURITY` is now promptless and auto-enabled indirectly by :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_CRYPTO`.
  * Approach to store keys in the KMU so that AEAD algorithms with non-default (shortened) tag lengths are supported.

* Fixed issues with incorrect support status on the :ref:`ug_crypto_supported_features` page:

  * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_ALG_GCM` Kconfig option is now correctly listed as unsupported for SoCs with Arm CryptoCell CC310.
  * The tables for supported AES key wrapping algorithms for nRF54L Series devices now list the nRF54LS05 device (not supported in the CRACEN driver; experimental in the nrf_oberon driver).
  * The post-quantum cryptography algorithms for nrf_oberon under Key types and key management are now correctly listed as experimental instead of supported.
  * The SPAKE2+ for Matter is now correctly listed as supported instead of experimental.
  * The WPA3-SAE hash-to-element algorithm is now correctly listed as a KDF algorithm, not a PAKE algorithm.
  * The SHA-256/192 and SHAKE hashing algorithms are now correctly listed as not supported in the CRACEN driver and Experimental in the nrf_oberon driver.
    The only exception is the SHAKE256 512 bits algorithm, which is supported in both the CRACEN and nrf_oberon drivers.

* Removed the ``CONFIG_NRF_SECURITY_ADVANCED`` Kconfig option.

Security libraries
------------------

* :ref:`nrf_security_readme` library:

  * Updated the documentation to one library page with sections for PSA Crypto, TLS and X.509, dependencies, and API documentation.
    The page includes information about how :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_CRYPTO` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MBEDTLS` are used after the Mbed TLS v4.1 update.
  * Removed the configuration page for the deprecated legacy crypto backend (:file:`libraries/security/nrf_security/doc/backend_config`).
    Configure cryptographic features using :ref:`psa_crypto_support` and :ref:`ug_crypto_supported_features` instead.

Mbed TLS
--------

* Updated Mbed TLS to v4.1.0 (from v3.6.6).
  For an overview of the changes brought by this update in Mbed TLS and Zephyr, see the following pages:

  * The Mbed TLS sections of the Zephyr v4.4 :ref:`release notes <zephyr_4.4>` and :ref:`migration guide <migration_4.4>`.

  * The release notes from upstream Mbed TLS:

    * https://github.com/Mbed-TLS/mbedtls/releases/tag/mbedtls-4.0.0
    * https://github.com/Mbed-TLS/TF-PSA-Crypto/releases/tag/tf-psa-crypto-1.0.0
    * https://github.com/Mbed-TLS/mbedtls/releases/tag/mbedtls-4.1.0
    * https://github.com/Mbed-TLS/TF-PSA-Crypto/releases/tag/tf-psa-crypto-1.1.0

  As part of this update, the following changes were made:

  * Removed support for legacy, deprecated Mbed TLS Crypto APIs and related tests.
  * Rearranged Kconfig options related to Mbed TLS in various files under :ref:`nrf_security`.
  * Removed outdated Kconfig options related to Mbed TLS in various files under :ref:`nrf_security`.
  * :ref:`nrf_security` now uses the Mbed TLS integration from Zephyr as-is (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MBEDTLS_BUILTIN`) while replacing upstream TF-PSA-Crypto with Oberon PSA Crypto (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TF_PSA_CRYPTO_CUSTOM`).

  From this update onwards:

  * Enable :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MBEDTLS` only if you use TLS or X.509.
  * For cryptographic operations, enable only :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_CRYPTO`.
```

* Added:

>   * Support for the X25519 key pair storage in the :ref:`Key Management Unit (KMU) <ug_kmu_guides_supported_key_types>`.

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
* Added support for the X25519 key pair storage in the :ref:`Key Management Unit (KMU) <ug_kmu_guides_supported_key_types>`.
```

* Updated:

>   * How the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_SECURITY` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_CRYPTO` interact with each other.

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
  * How the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_SECURITY` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_CRYPTO` Kconfig options interact with each other.
```

  * Approach to store keys in the KMU so that AEAD algorithms with non-default (shortened) tag lengths are supported.

* Fixed:

  * Issues with incorrect support status on the :ref:`ug_crypto_supported_features` page:

    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PSA_WANT_ALG_GCM` Kconfig option is now correctly listed as unsupported for SoCs with Arm CryptoCell CC310.
    * The tables for supported AES key wrapping algorithms for nRF54L Series devices now list the nRF54LS05 device (not supported in the CRACEN driver; experimental in the nrf_oberon driver).
    * The post-quantum cryptography algorithms for nrf_oberon under Key types and key management are now correctly listed as experimental instead of supported.
    * The SPAKE2+ for Matter is now correctly listed as supported instead of experimental.
    * The WPA3-SAE hash-to-element algorithm is now correctly listed as a KDF algorithm, not a PAKE algorithm.
    * The SHA-256/192 and SHAKE hashing algorithms are now correctly listed as not supported in the CRACEN driver and Experimental in the nrf_oberon driver.

>       The only exception is the SHAKE256 512 bits algorithm, which is supported in the both the CRACEN and nrf_oberon drivers.

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
      The only exception is the SHAKE256 512 bits algorithm, which is supported in both the CRACEN and nrf_oberon drivers.
```

* Removed:

  * The following Kconfig options:

>     * ``CONFIG_NRF_SECURITY_ADVANCED``

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
* Removed the Kconfig option ``CONFIG_NRF_SECURITY_ADVANCED``.
```

Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M)
-------------------------

> |no_changes_yet_note|

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Updated to version 2.3.0.
```
From #29094

Protocols
=========

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`protocol <protocols>`.
See `Samples`_ for lists of changes for the protocol-related samples.

Bluetooth® LE
-------------

* Added the following Kconfig options to enable support for certain HCI commands:

  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_DATA_RELATED_ADDRESS_CHANGES`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_RF_PATH_COMPENSATION`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_ISO_TEST`

Bluetooth Mesh
--------------

> 

Reviewer 17: @FrancescoSer please add:

```suggestion
* Added recommendations on sizing the persistence storage partitions to handle continuous storage of replay protection list.
```

#29266

|no_changes_yet_note|

DECT NR+
--------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Enhanced ShockBurst (ESB)
-------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Gazell
------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Matter
------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Matter fork
+++++++++++

|no_changes_yet_note|

nRF IEEE 802.15.4 radio driver
------------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Thread
------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Wi-Fi®
------

* Removed support for DES-encrypted private keys in Wi-Fi Enterprise (EAP-TLS) following the update to Mbed TLS 4.1.0/TF-PSA-Crypto 1.1.0 in |NCS|.
  TF-PSA-Crypto no longer implements DES ciphers, therefore PKCS#8 client keys encrypted with DES-EDE3-CBC cannot be decrypted during the TLS handshake (including the FreeRADIUS ``rsa2k`` test certificates).

>   Use ``zephyr/samples/net/wifi/test_certs/rsa2k_no_des``, re-encrypt credentials with AES (PBES2), or use unencrypted keys when provisioning enterprise credentials.

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
  Use :file:`zephyr/samples/net/wifi/test_certs/rsa2k_no_des`, re-encrypt credentials with AES (PBES2), or use unencrypted keys when provisioning enterprise credentials.
```

  See the :ref:`zephyr:wifi_mgmt` documentation for details.

Applications
============

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`application <applications>`.

Connectivity bridge
-------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

High-Performance Framework (HPF)
--------------------------------

* Added support for the nRF54LV10A SoC in HPF MSPI.

IPC radio firmware
------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Matter bridge
-------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

nRF Audio (formerly nRF5340 Audio)
----------------------------------

* Renamed the application to nRF Audio from nRF5340 Audio.
* Added:

>   * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_AUDIO_BROADCAST_BASE_PRINT` kconfig option to print the contents of the BASE when it is received.

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
  * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_AUDIO_BROADCAST_BASE_PRINT` Kconfig option to print the contents of the BASE when it is received.
```

nRF Machine Learning (Edge Impulse)
-----------------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Thingy:53: Matter weather station
---------------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Installer (MCUboot Firmware Loader installer)
-----------------------------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Samples
=======

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`sample <samples>`.

Bluetooth samples
-----------------

* Added:

  * The :ref:`channel_sounding_ipt_initiator` and :ref:`channel_sounding_ipt_reflector` samples to demonstrate how to use the Bluetooth Channel Sounding (CS) Inline Phase Correction Term Transfer (IPT) feature.
  * Support for the ``nrf54ls05dk/nrf54ls05a/cpuapp`` board target in the following samples:

    * :ref:`bluetooth_conn_time_synchronization`
    * :ref:`direct_test_mode`
    * :ref:`ble_event_trigger`
    * :ref:`bluetooth_iso_combined_bis_cis`
    * :ref:`ble_llpm`
    * :ref:`bluetooth_radio_coex_1wire_sample`
    * :ref:`ble_radio_notification_conn_cb`
    * :ref:`bt_scanning_while_connecting`
    * :ref:`ble_subrating`

* :ref:`peripheral_hids_mouse` sample:

> * Added:

Reviewer 12: Indentation to be fixed.

  * Fixed the ringing status indications with the green LED flashes for reference board targets.
    A ringing status indication was often skipped during the motion detection event.

Cellular samples
----------------

* Removed:

  * All nRF Cloud REST samples as the nRF Cloud REST library has been removed.
  * Usage of nRF Cloud logging in samples as the feature is being sunset.
  * The Cellular: nRF Cloud multi-service sample.

* :ref:`gnss_sample` sample:

  * Updated to use the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_coap` library instead of the removed nRF Cloud REST library.

* :ref:`modem_shell_application` sample:

  * Updated to use the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_coap` library instead of the removed nRF Cloud REST library.

Cryptography samples
--------------------

* Added support for the ``nrf54ls05dk/nrf54ls05a/cpuapp`` board target to all samples, except :ref:`crypto_aes_kw`, :ref:`crypto_kmu_cracen_usage`, and :ref:`crypto_persistent_key`.

Debug samples
-------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

DFU samples
-----------

* Updated:

>   * The ref:`mcuboot_minimal_configuration` has been moved to the :file:`samples/dfu` directory.

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
  * The :ref:`mcuboot_minimal_configuration` has been moved to the :file:`samples/dfu` directory.
```

  * Added:

    * ``start_tx_sweep_with_sleep`` shell command that allows for running a TX sweep with silent periods between each frequency.
    * ``start_tx_sweep_with_sleep_modulated`` shell command that allows for running a modulated TX sweep with silent periods between each frequency.
    * ``set_channel_sequence`` shell command that allows for setting a custom channel sequence for the ``start_tx_sweep_with_sleep`` and ``start_tx_sweep_with_sleep_modulated`` commands.
    * ``print_channel_sequence`` shell command that prints the currently configured channel sequence.
    * ``set_channel_sequence_hopping_mode`` shell command that allows for setting the hopping mode for the channel sequence.
    * Support for pin debugging of radio events on nRF54L Series devices.

  * Updated the ``start_duty_cycle_modulated_tx`` command to accept an optional argument specifying the number of packets to transmit.
    If no additional argument is provided, the command works as before.
  * Fixed an issue where the ``start_duty_cycle_modulated_tx`` command would not work correctly on nRF52 Series devices if the command was triggered more than once.

PMIC samples
------------

> * Updated the :ref:`npm13xx_fuel_gauge` :ref:`npm2100_fuel_gauge` samples to use :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_fuel_gauge` v2.0.0, and added support for state storage.

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
* Updated the :ref:`npm13xx_fuel_gauge` and :ref:`npm2100_fuel_gauge` samples to use :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_fuel_gauge` v2.0.0, and added support for state storage.
```

Drivers
=======

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`driver <drivers>`.

* Fixed an issue where the low power UART may fail after a reset if the reset occurs during transmission.

Wi-Fi drivers
-------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Flash drivers
-------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Libraries
=========

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`library <libraries>`.

Binary libraries
----------------

* :ref:`liblwm2m_carrier_readme` library:

  * Added support for building without Partition Manager.
    This requires an ``lwm2m_carrier`` partition to be defined in devicetree.

Bluetooth libraries and services
--------------------------------

* :ref:`bt_fast_pair_readme` library:

  * Fixed missing ATT write length validation in the GATT write handler for the Fast Pair Additional Data characteristic, used by the experimental Personalized Name extension (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FAST_PAIR_PN`).

* :ref:`hogp_readme` library:

  * Fixed an issue where the :c:func:`bt_hogp_rep_unsubscribe` function did not clear the notification callback, which prevented the :c:func:`bt_hogp_rep_subscribe` function from succeeding after unsubscribing.

>   * Added support for Bluetooth HID Shorter Connection Intervals (SCI) on the HID device and HID host sides (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_HIDS_SCI`, :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_HOGP_SCI`).

Reviewer: Added first, then Fixed

Common Application Framework
----------------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Debug libraries
---------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

DFU libraries
-------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Gazell libraries
----------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Security libraries
------------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

Modem libraries
---------------

* :ref:`lib_location` library:

  * Fixed an issue where cloud location requests were not sent when cellular profile 1 was active.

* :ref:`nrf_modem_lib_readme` library:

  * Added support for building for the nRF91 board without Partition Manager.
    This requires ``cpuapp_cpucell_ipc_shm_ctrl``, ``cpuapp_cpucell_ipc_shm_heap``, and ``cpucell_cpuapp_ipc_shm_heap`` partitions to be defined in the devicetree.

>   * Use a separate ``cpucell_cpuapp_ipc_shm_trace`` partition for modem tracing instead of splitting the ``cpucell_cpuapp_ipc_shm_heap`` partition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Use a separate ``cpucell_cpuapp_ipc_shm_trace`` partition for modem tracing instead of splitting the ``cpucell_cpuapp_ipc_shm_heap`` partition.
```

    The :ref:`at_monitor_readme` library is now used for tracking network connectivity status.

* :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library:

  * Updated:

    * By changing the default device ID source from :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_CLIENT_ID_SRC_IMEI` to the device UUID.
      On an nRF9160 device the default is now :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_CLIENT_ID_SRC_INTERNAL_UUID`, which reads the UUID from the JWT ``iss`` claim and preserves compatibility with field devices provisioned through older nrfcloud-utils flows.
      On the nRF91x1 and future SoCs, the default is :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_CLIENT_ID_SRC_MDM_DEVICE_UUID`, which reads the UUID using ``AT%DEVICEUUID`` without pulling in :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MODEM_JWT`.
      Each option is constrained to its target SoC at the Kconfig level.
      See the :ref:`migration_3.4` for the impact on existing devices that relied on the previous IMEI default.

  * Deprecated:

    * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_CLIENT_ID_SRC_IMEI` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_CLIENT_ID_SRC_HW_ID` Kconfig options.
      Use the default UUID source for new applications.

  * Added:

>     * Added the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_SEND_DEVICE_INFO_BOOTLOADER_VERSION` Kconfig option to include the active MCUboot (B1) ``fw_info`` version as ``bootloaderVersion`` in ``deviceInfo``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Added the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_SEND_DEVICE_INFO_BOOTLOADER_VERSION` Kconfig option to include the active MCUboot (B1) ``fw_info`` version as ``bootloaderVersion`` in ``deviceInfo``.
```
Move this as the first entry in the list.

  * Fixed:

    * An issue where PEM private keys with CRLF line endings could not be decoded correctly for JWT signing used in nRF Cloud CoAP authentication.
    * A DTLS socket option setup to inspect ``errno`` after ``setsockopt()`` failures instead of comparing the return value to ``EOPNOTSUPP`` or ``EINVAL``, which could mishandle unsupported options during DTLS configuration.
    * The DTLS handshake timeout configuration on native (non-modem) sockets by using ``TLS_DTLS_HANDSHAKE_TIMEOUT_MIN`` and ``TLS_DTLS_HANDSHAKE_TIMEOUT_MAX`` instead of the modem-only ``TLS_DTLS_HANDSHAKE_TIMEO`` option, avoiding handshake failures when connecting to nRF Cloud over Wi-Fi.
    * The internal CoAP client socket descriptor not being updated immediately after a new DTLS socket was connected, which could leave ``client->cc.fd`` stale during reconnect and interfere with CoAP polling, receive, and retransmit paths.

  * Removed:

>   * The nRF Cloud Alerts library.

Reviewer 12: Indentation to be fixed.

    As part of the migration to *nRF Cloud powered by Memfault*, the nRF Cloud Alerts feature is now redundant.
    `Memfault's Trace Events <Memfault: Error Tracking with Trace Events_>`_ feature replaces the Alerts feature, as it provides equivalent functionality for event reporting, and it also adds enhanced debugging capabilities that were not available with Alerts.
  * The nRF Cloud REST library.
  * The nRF Cloud logging library.

* :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_pgps` library:

  * Updated:

    * The range for the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PGPS_NUM_PREDICTIONS` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_PGPS_REPLACEMENT_THRESHOLD` Kconfig options to values supported by nRF Cloud.

>     * The CoAP endpoint used for requesting predictions has been renamed from ``loc/pgps`` to ``loc/pgnss``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * By renaming the CoAP endpoint used for requesting predictions from ``loc/pgps`` to ``loc/pgnss``.
```

Reviewer: This is not yet fixed. The original text "The ... has been renamed..." does not read well with Updated.

    This change breaks the backward compatibility between the library and host tools due to modifications in the info RTT channel string layout.
    The nRF Profiler event descriptions are now sent within the ``<ev_info_start>`` and ``<ev_info_stop>`` markers.
    System configuration details are now sent within the ``<sys_config_start>`` and ``<sys_config_stop>`` markers.
    The system configuration details are formatted as a list of key-value data, for example, ``key1,value1``.
    Subsequent entries are separated by newlines.
    The value returned by the :c:func:`sys_clock_hw_cycles_per_sec` function is sent using the ``sys_clock_hw_cycles_per_sec`` key.

Shell libraries
---------------

|no_changes_yet_note|

sdk-nrfxlib
-----------

See the changelog for each library in the :doc:`nrfxlib documentation <nrfxlib:README>` for additional information.

Scripts
=======

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`script <scripts>`.

* :ref:`west_sbom` script:

* Added:

  * Licence handling of the LLVM toolchain libraries.
  * Support for hex only ``softdevice`` sysbuild domains.

>   * Updated the SPDX License List database to version 3.28.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Added:

    * Licence handling of the LLVM toolchain libraries.
    * Support for hex only ``softdevice`` sysbuild domains.
    * Updated the SPDX License List database to version 3.28.0.
```

* :ref:`nrf_profiler_script` script:

  * Updated the scripts to use hardware clock information from SoC to enable accurate conversion from hardware clock cycles to seconds.
    Refactored the parser to support the new RTT communication layout, including the handling of ``<ev_info_...>`` and ``<sys_config_...>`` data markers.

>   * Fixed the ``ms_per_timestamp_tick`` parameter (defined in the :file: `rtt_nordic_config.py`) to accurately align with the system clock's frequency of the nRF52, nRF53, and nRF91 Series SoCs.

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
  * Fixed the ``ms_per_timestamp_tick`` parameter (defined in the :file:`rtt_nordic_config.py`) to accurately align with the system clock's frequency of the nRF52, nRF53, and nRF91 Series SoCs.
```
